When to use data lakes.
Data lakes can be used for experimental analysis of data,
where you are still not sure and want to have
a proof of concept before investing in an end-to-end data pipeline.
ELTs make it easy to use data lakes for such experimental analysis.
Cybersecurity data collection and analysis is a great use case of data lakes.
For any enterprise devices such as laptops,
servers, cloud computing devices,
and virtual systems are all vulnerable.
Add connecting devices to this mix,
it becomes a big data problem that can be solved using data lakes.
Data lakes can be used to build
customer data platforms to provide rich customer insights.
Data for such platform can come from various sources such as customer profile DBs,
web and mobile events,
brick and mortar systems,
loyalty systems, and service center data.
This data can be of any type: structured, semi-structured, or unstructured.
Data lakes work best for such use cases.